README.md, before:

# Kusto appender for Log4j

Apache Log4J 2 sink for Azure Data Explorer.

This sink allows you to stream your log data to
[Azure Data Explorer][data_explorer], [Azure Synapse Data Explorer][synapse],
and [Real time analytics in Fabric][fabric].

[data_explorer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer
[synapse]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/data-explorer/data-explorer-overview
[fabric]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/real-time-analytics/overview

Motivation and usage
----------------------

Log4j2 is widely used as logging tool. Kusto implementation
is used in conjunction with RollingFileAppender with KustoStrategy.
The key reason for using a strategy is to have redundancy in storage
of logs and re-transmit the log files.

To provide data transmission redundancy, the rolled over log files are
transmitted to Kusto. Transmission of the files are attempted 3 times
with a configured time window

Adding appender to log4j.properties
----------------------

The key parameters for rolling file are as documented in
the [Rolling file log4j configuration](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/appenders.html#RollingFileAppender)

- fileName: The file name where the log files will be written locally. This is a fully qualified path and not a
  relative path (e.g C:/logs/logs.log)
- filePattern: The rolled over file name with pattern. This is a fully qualified path and not a relative path (e.g C:
  /logs/logs-%d{yyyy-MM-dd-hh-mm-ss}-%i.log)

Configurations for using the Kusto log4j appender is as follows

- KustoStrategy
  - **clusterIngestUrl**: Ingest URL. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_INGEST_CLUSTER_URL**
  - **appId**: Service principal application id. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_APP_ID**.
  - **appKey**: Service principal application secret. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_APP_KEY**
  - **appTenant**: Tenant for the Service principal. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_TENANT_ID**
  - **dbName**: Database name. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_DB_NAME**
  - **tableName**: Table name for ingesting the logs
  - **logTableMapping**: Mapping defined in the database to map the log data
  - **mappingType**: json (or) csv is currently supported. Defaults to **_csv_**
  - **flushImmediately**: Boolean indicator to flush the logs immediately. Defaults to **_false_**. Note that making
      this true may cause additional load on the cluster
  - **proxyUrl**: Proxy url in case application is hosted behind a proxy
  - **managedIdentityId**: Use managed identity id. If "system" is used a System Managed Identity is used, else a User Managed Identity is attempted
  - **useInteractiveAuth**: Use interactive authentication. Defaults to **_false_**. If set to true, this is given precedence over AAD Auth and Managed Identity id (supplied through AppId)

- To attempt retries in case of ingestion failures, retransmission is attempted with the following configuration. 3
  retries are attempted to ingest the logs. In the event that the file cannot be ingested it gets moved to the backout
  directory in the same path defined in fileName

  - **backOffMinMinutes**: Min minutes to back off in the event that ingestion fails
  - **backOffMaxMinutes**: Max minutes to back off in the event that ingestion fails

```xml
<Configuration status="WARN">
    <Appenders>
        <RollingFile name="ADXRollingFile" fileName="<fileName>"
                     filePattern="<filePattern>">
            <KustoStrategy
                    clusterIngestUrl="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_INGEST_CLUSTER_URL}"
                    appId="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_ID}"
                    appKey="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_KEY}"
                    appTenant="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_TENANT_ID}"
                    dbName="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_DB_NAME}"
                    tableName=""
                    logTableMapping=""
                    mappingType=""
                    flushImmediately=""
                    proxyUrl=""
                    backOffMinMinutes=""
                    backOffMaxMinutes=""
            />
            <CsvLogEventLayout delimiter="," quoteMode="ALL"/>
            <!-- References policies from https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/appenders.html -->
            <Policies>
              <!-- Recommended size is 4 MB -->
                <SizeBasedTriggeringPolicy size="4 MB"/>
              <!-- 
              The interval determines in conjunction with file pattern the time for rollup. If file has pattern
              file-yyyy-MM-dd-hh-mm.log then rollover happens evey 5 minutes (interval below)
              With a date pattern file-yyyy-MM-dd-hh.log with hours as the most specific item, rollover would happen
              every 5 hours 
              -->
                <TimeBasedTriggeringPolicy interval="5" modulate="true"/>
            </Policies>
        </RollingFile>
    </Appenders>
    <Loggers>
        <Root level="debug" additivity="false">
            <AppenderRef ref="ADXRollingFile"/>
        </Root>
    </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

How to build
----------------------

In power-shell the following can be set

```sh
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_DB_NAME="<db-name>"
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_TENANT_ID="<tenant-id>"                   
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_INGEST_CLUSTER_URL="https://ingest-<cluster>.kusto.windows.net"
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_ID="<app-id>"
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_KEY="<app-key>" 
```

followed by

```mvn clean compiler:compile compiler:testCompile surefire:test```

If you are a maven user, maven dependency plugin can resolve the dependencies.
Note : The library uses resilience4j which is brought in automatically by the dependencies to perform retries.

Maven co-ordinates
----------------------

To use the library in an application, add the following dependency in maven

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure.kusto</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-kusto-log4j</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The library expects that `log4j-core` is provided as a dependency in the application. This needs to be included as a
dependency, this provides flexibility in using a custom log4j version core library in the application.

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>log4j-core</artifactId>
    <version>${log4j.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

Commit message:

* Changes for interactive Auth and update documentation

README.md, after:

# Kusto appender for Log4j

Apache Log4J 2 sink for Azure Data Explorer.

This sink allows you to stream your log data to
[Azure Data Explorer][data_explorer], [Azure Synapse Data Explorer][synapse],
and [Real time analytics in Fabric][fabric].

[data_explorer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer
[synapse]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/data-explorer/data-explorer-overview
[fabric]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/real-time-analytics/overview

With interactive login, application developers can use [Kusto Free](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/freecluster) to debug and log data from their applications without having to provision a cluster. Set the parameter useInteractiveAuth to true (and tenant if applicable) to use interactive login.

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.microsoft.azure.kusto/azure-kusto-log4j.svg)](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.microsoft.azure.kusto%20AND%20a:azure-kusto-log4j)

Motivation and usage
----------------------

Log4j2 is widely used as logging tool. Kusto implementation
is used in conjunction with RollingFileAppender with KustoStrategy.
The key reason for using a strategy is to have redundancy in storage
of logs and re-transmit the log files.

To provide data transmission redundancy, the rolled over log files are
transmitted to Kusto. Transmission of the files are attempted 3 times
with a configured time window

Adding appender to log4j.properties
----------------------

The key parameters for rolling file are as documented in
the [Rolling file log4j configuration](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/appenders.html#RollingFileAppender)

- fileName: The file name where the log files will be written locally. This is a fully qualified path and not a
  relative path (e.g C:/logs/logs.log)
- filePattern: The rolled over file name with pattern. This is a fully qualified path and not a relative path (e.g C:
  /logs/logs-%d{yyyy-MM-dd-hh-mm-ss}-%i.log)

Configurations for using the Kusto log4j appender is as follows

- KustoStrategy
  - **clusterIngestUrl**: Ingest URL. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_INGEST_CLUSTER_URL**
  - **appId**: Service principal application id. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_APP_ID**.
  - **appKey**: Service principal application secret. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_APP_KEY**
  - **appTenant**: Tenant for the Service principal. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_TENANT_ID**
  - **dbName**: Database name. Configured using environment variable **LOG4J2_ADX_DB_NAME**
  - **tableName**: Table name for ingesting the logs
  - **logTableMapping**: Mapping defined in the database to map the log data
  - **mappingType**: json (or) csv is currently supported. Defaults to **_csv_**
  - **flushImmediately**: Boolean indicator to flush the logs immediately. Defaults to **_false_**. Note that making
      this true may cause additional load on the cluster
  - **proxyUrl**: Proxy url in case application is hosted behind a proxy
  - **managedIdentityId**: Use managed identity id. If "system" is used a System Managed Identity is used, else a User Managed Identity is attempted
  - **useInteractiveAuth**: Use interactive authentication. Defaults to **_false_**. If set to true, this is given precedence over AAD Auth and Managed Identity id (supplied through AppId)

- To attempt retries in case of ingestion failures, retransmission is attempted with the following configuration. 3
  retries are attempted to ingest the logs. In the event that the file cannot be ingested it gets moved to the backout
  directory in the same path defined in fileName

  - **backOffMinMinutes**: Min minutes to back off in the event that ingestion fails
  - **backOffMaxMinutes**: Max minutes to back off in the event that ingestion fails

```xml
<Configuration status="WARN">
    <Appenders>
        <RollingFile name="ADXRollingFile" fileName="<fileName>"
                     filePattern="<filePattern>">
            <KustoStrategy
                    clusterIngestUrl="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_INGEST_CLUSTER_URL}"
                    appId="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_ID}"
                    appKey="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_KEY}"
                    appTenant="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_TENANT_ID}"
                    dbName="${env:LOG4J2_ADX_DB_NAME}"
                    tableName=""
                    logTableMapping=""
                    mappingType=""
                    flushImmediately=""
                    proxyUrl=""
                    backOffMinMinutes=""
                    backOffMaxMinutes=""
            />
            <CsvLogEventLayout delimiter="," quoteMode="ALL"/>
            <!-- References policies from https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/appenders.html -->
            <Policies>
              <!-- Recommended size is 4 MB -->
                <SizeBasedTriggeringPolicy size="4 MB"/>
              <!-- 
              The interval determines in conjunction with file pattern the time for rollup. If file has pattern
              file-yyyy-MM-dd-hh-mm.log then rollover happens evey 5 minutes (interval below)
              With a date pattern file-yyyy-MM-dd-hh.log with hours as the most specific item, rollover would happen
              every 5 hours 
              -->
                <TimeBasedTriggeringPolicy interval="5" modulate="true"/>
            </Policies>
        </RollingFile>
    </Appenders>
    <Loggers>
        <Root level="debug" additivity="false">
            <AppenderRef ref="ADXRollingFile"/>
        </Root>
    </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

How to build
----------------------

In power-shell the following can be set

```sh
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_DB_NAME="<db-name>"
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_TENANT_ID="<tenant-id>"                   
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_INGEST_CLUSTER_URL="https://ingest-<cluster>.kusto.windows.net"
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_ID="<app-id>"
$env:LOG4J2_ADX_APP_KEY="<app-key>" 
```

followed by

```mvn clean compiler:compile compiler:testCompile surefire:test```

If you are a maven user, maven dependency plugin can resolve the dependencies.
Note : The library uses resilience4j which is brought in automatically by the dependencies to perform retries.

Maven co-ordinates
----------------------

To use the library in an application, add the following dependency in maven

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.microsoft.azure.kusto</groupId>
    <artifactId>azure-kusto-log4j</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The library expects that `log4j-core` is provided as a dependency in the application. This needs to be included as a
dependency, this provides flexibility in using a custom log4j version core library in the application.

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>log4j-core</artifactId>
    <version>${log4j.version}</version>
</dependency>
```
